Even while men's minds are wild; lest mo
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA
Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA
To OPHELIA
Enter OPHELIA
Re-enter OPHELIA
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
For Hecuba!
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
Ha!
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
beautified Ophelia,'--
What, the fair Ophelia!
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Affront Ophelia:
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
How now, Ophelia!
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
Pretty Ophelia!
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
An you call him a-down-a.
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
you are asked this question next, say 'a
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC
Enter OSRIC
Exit OSRIC
'In her excellent white bosom, these, & c.'
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
Come, some music!
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
And let him ply his music.
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
Enter two Clowns, with spades, & c
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES, Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils, & c
Enter Priest, & c. in procession; the Corpse of OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains, & c
VOLTIMAND
CORNELIUS VOLTIMAND
time: after your death you were better have a bad
Dead.
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
A second time I kill my husband dead,
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
We should profane the service of the dead
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
No, no, he is dead:
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
[Drawing] How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
The source of this our watch and the chief head
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Which was declining on the milky head
With all my imperfections on my head:
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
And at our more consider'd time well read,
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
How came he mad?
That hath made him mad.
Alas, he's mad!
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Go to thy death-bed:
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
When second husband kisses me in bed.
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
go to bed.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
pronounced:
To be commanded.
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Mother, you have my father much offended.
It is offended.
This business is well ended.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Stick fiery off indeed.
I know him well: he is the brooch indeed
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
A combination and a form indeed,
To show yourself your father's son in deed
'twas so indeed.
So he does indeed.
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
O heavy deed!
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
She swounds to see them bleed.
She swounds to see them bleed.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
To the unsatisfied.
To the unsatisfied.
I did repel his fetters and denied
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
Her mood will needs be pitied.
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
[Reads] 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
My lord, I will be ruled;
You might have rhymed.
To hear him so inclined.
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
question of the play be then to be considered:
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
Pale or red?
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
Part them; they are incensed.
Part them; they are incensed.
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Which now goes too free-footed.
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
Or like a creature native and indued
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
By desperate appliance are relieved,
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
I was the more deceived.
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
My father, in his habit as he lived!
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
He is justly served;
He is justly served;
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
in the city? are they so followed?
You promised me to wed.
Safely stowed.
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
Let in the maid, that out a maid
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
By and by is easily said.
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
Come short of what he did.
My lord, I did;
I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did,
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
How was this seal'd?
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
say an old man is twice a child.
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
To mine own room again; making so bold,
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
To what I shall unfold.
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
I do not know from what part of the world
i' the world.
My will, not all the world:
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
In the corrupted currents of this world
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
That treason can but peep to what it would,
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
Know you the hand?
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
But to recover of us, by strong hand
yesty collection, which carries them through and
If by direct or by collateral hand
No, by this hand.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
And hath shipped me intil the land,
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
It must be shortly known to him from England
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
is mad, and sent into England.
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
For England.
For England!
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
Against some part of Poland.
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
Put your dread pleasures more into command
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
one man picked out of ten thousand.
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Do, if it will not stand.
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
died: they say he made a good end,--
that's the end.
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
you deny your griefs to your friend.
And each particular hair to stand on end,
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
And carriage of the article design'd,
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
If circumstances lead me, I will find
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
[Aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind.
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
narrow for your mind.
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
Upon my life, Lamond.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
Are joyfully return'd.
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
The single and peculiar life is bound,
And, like a man to double business bound,
As it hath used to do, that I have found
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
But, better look'd into, he truly found
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
It waves you to a more removed ground:
We go to gain a little patch of ground
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
Friends to this ground.
Upon what ground?
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Drown'd, drown'd.
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
With what, i' the name of God?
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
O God!
Do you see this, O God?
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
[Aside] Though this be madness, yet there is method
Good.
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
That to the use of actions fair and good
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Repast them with my blood.
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
[Aside] Wormwood, wormwood.
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
Have you had quiet guard?
you could go backward.
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
SCENE I. A churchyard.
Be all my sins remember'd.
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
A sable silver'd.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Lord
Lord
Lord
Enter a Lord
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
Exit Lord
My dread lord,
My honoured lord!
My good lord--
No, my good lord.
But, my good lord,--
Ay, my good lord.
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
How is't, my noble lord?
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
My most dear lord!
O, my dear lord,--
In what, my dear lord?
My lord?
What do you read, my lord?
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
Arm'd, my lord.
To what end, my lord?
Good my lord,
Good my lord!
Good my lord!
A truant disposition, good my lord.
Ay, good my lord.
Nay, good my lord,--
Very good, my lord.
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
[Within] My lord, my lord,--
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
There's no offence, my lord.
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
What a treasure had he, my lord?
Come, my lord.
At home, my lord.
Do you know me, my lord?
Alas, look here, my lord.
There, my lord.
Where, my lord?
Not a jot more, my lord.
That's very true, my lord.
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
I have, my lord.
'Tis brief, my lord.
Save yourself, my lord:
A thing, my lord!
I think nothing, my lord.
As gaming, my lord.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
What speech, my lord?
Propose the oath, my lord.
Nor I, my lord.
Not I, my lord.
We shall, my lord.
I shall, my lord.
Well, my lord.
Well, my lord:
Fare you well, my lord.
Very well, my lord
Very well, my lord.
Ay, very well, my lord.
We will, my lord.
I will, my lord.
What does this mean, my lord?
What follows, then, my lord?
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
Prison, my lord!
We do, my lord.
You shall not go, my lord.
Wilt please you go, my lord?
[Within] Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
No, my lord.
E'en so, my lord.
We think not so, my lord.
Thanks, dear my lord.
You will lose this wager, my lord.
Neither, my lord.
The actors are come hither, my lord.
What is the matter, my lord?
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
How fares my lord?
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
What out of this, my lord?
What means this, my lord?
What is, my lord?
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
What news, my lord?
What part is that, my lord?
What's that, my lord?
What, my lord?
It might, my lord.
I know no touch of it, my lord.
Remember it, my lord?
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
I will do't, my lord.
Do not, my lord.
I understand you not, my lord.
Honest, my lord!
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord;
Ay, my lord.
Ay, my lord,
Ay, my lord.
What should we say, my lord?
I shall obey, my lord.
You are merry, my lord.
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
O, but she'll keep her word.
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Upon my sword.
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
The ratifiers and props of every word,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
QUEEN GERTRUDE
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE
Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
If it be,
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
Unto that element: but long it could not be
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
But this eternal blazon must not be
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
Then saw you not his face?
Come, let me wipe thy face.
Come, let me wipe thy face.
He falls to such perusal of my face
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
Get you a place.
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
As he in his particular act and place
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Bernardo has my place.
A double blessing is a double grace,
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
So by my former lecture and advice,
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
coming, to offer you service.
O, vengeance!
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
As fits a king's remembrance.
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Your leave and favour to return to France;
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance
You do remember all the circumstance?
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
On such regards of safety and allowance
censure of the which one must in your allowance
It will be laid to us, whose providence
own defence?
For art and exercise in your defence
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
But to confront the visage of offence?
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
[Aside] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
[Aside] And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
And call the noblest to the audience.
And call the noblest to the audience.
Sir, in this audience,
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
To offer it the show of violence;
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
That so his sickness, age and impotence
He closes with you in this consequence;
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
How long is that since?
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
O, a pit of clay for to be made
O, a pit of clay for to be made
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
The lists and full proportions, are all made
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
And recks not his own rede.
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Aside
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
We will ourselves provide:
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Let's follow, Gertrude:
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
Why seems it so particular with thee?
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
For what advancement may I hope from thee
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Go on; I'll follow thee.
I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
What is it ye would see?
What is it ye would see?
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
Let me see.
at this line: let me see, let me see--
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
For, by the image of my cause, I see
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
To keep those many many bodies safe
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
That makes calamity of so long life;
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
Upon whose property and most dear life
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Pursued my life.
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
my life, except my life.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
And prey on garbage.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
You cannot call it love; for at your age
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
The triumph of his pledge.
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
Of the unworthiest siege.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
'Tis strange.
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
'Tis very strange.
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
May sweep to my revenge.
Witness this army of such mass and charge
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
He.
What said he?
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
are as mad as he.
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
But how hath she
But where is he?
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
What is he that builds stronger than either the
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
When he himself might his quietus make
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
These hands are not more like.
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
The doors are broke.
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
The need we have to use you did provoke
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
Or like a whale?
Very like a whale.
How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
Nay, very pale.
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
As of a man faithful and honourable.
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
what we may be. God be at your table!
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Is't possible?
Is't possible?
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Sit down awhile;
Season your admiration for awhile
As to expend your time with us awhile,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Bestow this place on us a little while.
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
The queen desires you to use some gentle
SCENE I. Elsinore. A platform before the castle.
SCENE II. A room of state in the castle.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
SCENE V. Elsinore. A room in the castle.
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
SCENE III. A room in the castle.
SCENE II. Another room in the castle.
SCENE III. Another room in the castle.
SCENE VII. Another room in the castle.
SCENE VI. Another room in the castle.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
They shall go far with little.
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
And set a double varnish on the fame
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
Alack, and fie for shame!
By cock, they are to blame.
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
The very same.
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
O my son, what theme?
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
Can you advise me?
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
My lord, you once did love me.
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
What do you think of me?
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
What are they that would speak with me?
I pray you, go with me.
To punish me with this and this with me,
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
All in the morning betime,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
To any pastime?
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
If his chief good and market of his time
You must not take for fire. From this time
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
But that I know love is begun by time;
In happy time.
Mark me.
It well appears: but tell me
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
Who is't that can inform me?
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
Nor thine on me.
Nor thine on me.
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
cannot play upon me.
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
There with fantastic garlands did she come
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
To let this canker of our nature come
He will stay till ye come.
You are welcome.
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
That if again this apparition come,
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Have after. To what issue will this come?
My hour is almost come,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
O, here they come.
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Most welcome home!
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
What thou hast said to me.
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
Speak to me:
Speak to me:
Of his affection to me.
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
His access to me.
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
Come, one for me.
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
She well instructs me.
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
Have you forgot me?
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
In noise so rude against me?
How all occasions do inform against me,
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
Will you be ruled by me?
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
And liegemen to the Dane.
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
Hamlet the Dane.
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
To those of mine!
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
It will be short: the interim is mine;
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
are not mine.
To be your Valentine.
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
One.
And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
No more be done:
Must there no more be done?
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
If there be any good thing to be done,
With sore distraction. What I have done,
Then is the world one.
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
O me, what hast thou done?
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
He is dead and gone;
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
The bell then beating one,--
He is gone, he is gone,
'Tis gone!
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
Now I am alone.
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
To you alone.
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
Why, he had none.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
From another one?
You are the most immediate to our throne;
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
At his heels a stone.
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
Nor the soles of her shoe?
From top to toe?
O, treble woe
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
this pipe?
To business with the king, more than the scope
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
For the supply and profit of our hope,
Could not so mope.
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
Half a share.
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
But to my mind, though I am native here
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Peace! who comes here?
'Tis here!
'Tis here!
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
That youth and observation copied there;
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
Our purpose may hold there.
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Do you see nothing there?
Go seek him there.
I would I had been there.
It had been so with us, had we been there:
What, is Horatio there?
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
Who's there?
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
What is the issue of the business there.
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
To England send him, or confine him where
Drown'd! O, where?
At supper! where?
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
What, frighted with false fire!
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
As if it some impartment did desire
For every man has business and desire,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
It is most retrograde to our desire:
Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
Before you visit him, to make inquire
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
Never departed more.
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
No more!
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
'One fair daughter and no more,
O, speak to me no more;
O Hamlet, speak no more:
Think it no more;
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
Makes vow before his uncle never more
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
welcome to Elsinore.
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
Within the centre.
The terms of our estate may not endure
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
I am satisfied in nature,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Among a mineral of metals base,
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Good sir, whose powers are these?
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
When it proved otherwise?
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
What ceremony else?
What ceremony else?
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
the daintier sense.
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
Still better, and worse.
In obstinate condolement is a course
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
I had my father's signet in my purse,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
For this effect defective comes by cause:
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
SCENE I. A room in POLONIUS' house.
SCENE III. A room in Polonius' house.
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
And our affairs from England come too late:
And our affairs from England come too late:
[Aside] It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
The safety and health of this whole state;
Of his true state.
So far from cheer and from your former state,
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
As it doth well appear unto our state--
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
As of a father: for let the world take note,
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
The effect of what I wrote?
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
Bid the players make haste.
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
For the demand of our neglected tribute
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
Prologue
Enter Prologue
There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
[Aside] O, 'tis too true!
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
'Tis most true:
Collected from all simples that have virtue
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
O, give me leave:
I pray you, give me leave.
something: where did I leave?
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
What would she have?
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
My lord, I have.
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
But he's an arrant knave.
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Leaps into the grave
Leaps into the grave
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
And not have strew'd thy grave.
Into my grave.
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
Before my God, I might not this believe
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Nay, but to live
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
I could not but by her. The other motive,
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
I think it lacks of twelve.
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
Fare you well, my dove!
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
In youth, when I did love, did love,
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
There lives within the very flame of love
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
And with no less nobility of love
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
But never doubt I love.
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
This mad young man: but so much was our love,
Received his love?
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's ears, and exit. The Queen returns; finds the King dead, and makes passionate action. The Poisoner, with some two or three Mutes, comes in again, seeming to lament with her. The dead body is carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts his love
As woman's love.
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
Mad for thy love?
move
The instances that second marriage move
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
'Faith, her privates we.
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
As day does to your eye.
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
We shall express our duty in his eye;
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
[Advancing] What is he whose grief
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
The origin and commencement of his grief
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
By his cockle hat and staff,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
My head should be struck off.
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
love me, hold not off.
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
And live the purer with the other half.
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
So much from the understanding of himself,
The devil himself.
know himself.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
When down her weedy trophies and herself
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
Observe his inclination in yourself.
Given private time to you; and you yourself
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
It sends some precious instance of itself
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
Whose violent property fordoes itself
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
As thou art to thyself:
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
purpose, confess thyself--
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Must render up myself.
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
Than fly to others that we know not of?
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
At his head a grass-green turf,
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Enter HAMLET, reading
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
What company, at what expense; and finding
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching
the body. The king is a thing--
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
me one thing.
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Nothing.
Did nothing.
I have seen nothing.
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
And then it started like a guilty thing
Player King
Player King
Player King
Player King
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
replication should be made by the son of a king?
As kill a king!
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
sings at grave-making?
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
This man shall set me packing:
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
Is it not like the king?
There is a play to-night before the king;
Long live the king!
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
An earnest conjuration from the king,
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
with us to the king.
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
Is it the king?
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
When thou liest howling.
In censure of his seeming.
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
His silence will sit drooping.
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
Not a mouse stirring.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
Writing
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
And sure I am two men there are not living
Most generous and free from all contriving,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
could see the puppets dallying.
Therefore I have entreated him along
This is too long.
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Believe so much in him, that he is young
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
withers are unwrung.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
And smelt so? pah!
grave's this, sirrah?
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
Appears before them, and with solemn march
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
To cut his throat i' the church.
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Follow her close; give her good watch,
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
Without the sensible and true avouch
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
As if I had never been such.
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
We'll put the matter to the present push.
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
It may be death.
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
But that the dread of something after death,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He never gave commandment for their death.
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Gives me superfluous death.
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
To muddy death.
Is by a forged process of my death
And hears it roar beneath.
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
He's fat, and scant of breath.
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
in our more rawer breath?
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
In faith,
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
O, the recorders! let me see one. To withdraw with
Here's to thy health.
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
the earth?
As the indifferent children of the earth.
Lay her i' the earth:
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
For he himself is subject to his birth:
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Not from his mouth,
Not from his mouth,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
A very riband in the cap of youth,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
What is between you? give me up the truth.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
A whole one, I.
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
ACT III
ACT II
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
That can I;
Who, I?
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
ACT I
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
My lord, not I.
No, not I;
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
I do believe you think what now you speak;
Why, now you speak
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
But what we do determine oft we break.
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Alack,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
So levied as before, against the Polack:
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
A very, very--pajock.
No, it is struck.
So bloodily hast struck?
So bloodily hast struck?
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
And with a larger tether may he walk
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
Your wisdom best shall think.
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Gertrude, do not drink.
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
Read on this book;
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
A very noble youth: mark.
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
SCENE IV. A plain in Denmark.
himself for your succession in Denmark?
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Pray you, mark.
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
Then, venom, to thy work.
Then, venom, to thy work.
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
To his own scandal.
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Of bell and burial.
Christian burial.
Christian burial.
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
The sight is dismal;
The sight is dismal;
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
And bear it to the chapel.
With variable objects shall expel
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
It is backed like a weasel.
Methinks it is like a weasel.
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
as if you would drive me into a toil?
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
In further evil?
All
All
All
All
All
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
Last night of all,
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
those that are married already, all but one, shall
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
So you shall;
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
He was a man, take him for all in all,
His liberty is full of threats to all;
The better to beguile. This is for all:
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Or not at all.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
As if he had been loosed out of hell
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
Marry, now I can tell.
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
course for England: of them I have much to tell
Mass, I cannot tell.
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
All may be well.
Farewell!
Farewell.
thee. Farewell.
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
and quickly too. Farewell.
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
The which he loved passing well.'
that I love passing well.
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
I will bestow him, and will answer well
Good my lord, will you see the players well
It likes us well;
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
Thou pray'st not well.
'And in part him; but' you may say 'not well:
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
I am glad to see you well:
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
God be wi' you; fare you well.
Did he receive you well?
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
Let him demand his fill.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
harmony; I have not the skill.
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
It waves me still.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
To show us so much gentry and good will
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
What is't, my lord? we will.
We will, we will.
Rough-hew them how we will,--
I will.
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
And reason panders will.
I warrant it will.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
All flaxen was his poll:
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
Throws up a skull
Puts down the skull
Takes the skull
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
Throws up another skull
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
O, wonderful!
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
And my imaginations are as foul
The inward service of the mind and soul
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
God ha' mercy on his soul!
The devil take thy soul!
Even with the very comment of thy soul
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
Good madam!
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
Now falls on Priam.
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
This sudden sending him away must seem
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
yield them,
And not where I had aim'd them.
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
I pray you, now receive them.
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Will you two help to hasten them?
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
From Hamlet! who brought them?
Of him that brought them.
To him from whom you brought them.
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
This night to play before him.
O heavenly powers, restore him!
[Within]	Heaven secure him!
I did very well note him.
And will not let belief take hold of him
A piece of him.
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Ay, sir, what of him?
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
Pray you, be round with him.
Grappling with him
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
No more to undertake it, I will work him
We cannot get from him.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
You must not put another scandal on him,
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Pleasant and helpful to him!
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
For love of God, forbear him.
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Speak loudly for him.
My lord, that would dishonour him.
'Anon he finds him
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Well, we shall sift him.
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
Nay, let's follow him.
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
Did you assay him?
But not by him.
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
And to the manner born, it is a custom
Is it a custom?
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
In filial obligation for some term
Together with that fair and warlike form
And there assume some other horrible form,
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
SCENE IV. The platform.
SCENE V. Another part of the platform.
But, as we often see, against some storm,
king, and eat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ GUILDENSTERN
ROSENCRANTZ: GUILDENSTERN:
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
That I might be the organ.
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
'Sblood, there is something in this more than
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
To give the world assurance of a man:
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
As thou'rt a man,
As thou'rt a man,
Then I would you were so honest a man.
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
The unseen good old man.
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
Gentleman
Gentleman
Gentleman
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE, HORATIO, and a Gentleman
Enter another Gentleman
Was he a gentleman?
Most like a gentleman.
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
and 'gentleman.'
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Speak, man.
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
O most pernicious woman!
A Norman.
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
And we cast away moan:
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
What we have two nights seen.
Enter two Players, King and Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
Player Queen
'The mobled queen?'
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
How does the queen?
How does the queen?
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
How now, sweet queen!
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
Will you know them then?
What woman, then?
But if the gods themselves did see her then
O heavy burthen!
Be you and I behind an arras then;
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
Ay, amen!
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
Gentlemen,--
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
So, gentlemen,
Come hither, gentlemen,
Well be with you, gentlemen!
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
So, oft it chances in particular men,
liberty, these are the only men.
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
On plots and errors, happen.
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
To heaven.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven;
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
As oft as any passion under heaven
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
I shall not look upon his like again.
He never will come again.
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
Nay, come, again.
Nay, come, again.
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Well; again.
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
shall be dry again.
A murderer and a villain;
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
[Behind] O, I am slain!
That he which hath your noble father slain
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
I doubt it is no other but the main;
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
This the very coinage of your brain:
Sleep rock thy brain,
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Without more motive, into every brain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Captain
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
That is most certain.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
And never come mischance between us twain!
Up from my cabin,
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
Let them come in.
Let her come in.
[Within] Let her come in.
No, let's come in.
To his confine: and of the truth herein
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
And, as the world were now but to begin,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Is very cunning in.
Noise within
A noise within
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
March within
March within
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Flourish of trumpets within
March afar off, and shot within
March afar off, and shot within
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Take them in.
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
And after we will both our judgments join
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
Our son shall win.
How now! what hath befall'n?
Such was the very armour he had on
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Say you so? come on.
Say you so? come on.
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
And prologue to the omen coming on,
In honourable fashion.
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
A scullion!
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Into a towering passion.
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
exclaim against their own succession?
When we would bring him on to some confession
they hold up Adam's profession.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
This present object made probation.
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
And gem of all the nation.
He waxes desperate with imagination.
I have in quick determination
To show my duty in your coronation,
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
The very place puts toys of desperation,
into amazement and admiration.
Do not forget: this visitation
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
And they in France of the best rank and station
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
late innovation.
Look, with what courteous action
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And could of men distinguish, her election
good discretion.
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
According to the phrase or the addition
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
So horridly to shake our disposition
But with much forcing of his disposition.
That might your nature, honour and exception
Shall in the general censure take corruption
cuffs in the question.
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
By this encompassment and drift of question
That I must call't in question.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
And thus the native hue of resolution
complexion.
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
For what we know must be and is as common
Ay, madam, it is common.
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
To put an antic disposition on,
And his sandal shoon.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
My custom always of the afternoon,
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
What's his weapon?
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
That capability and god-like reason
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
Treason! treason!
Treason! treason!
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
it is a prison.
Denmark's a prison.
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
If it assume my noble father's person,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
Where is your son?
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
For he was likely, had he been put on,
Go softly on.
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
tongues else for's turn.
But, orderly to end where I begun,
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
You must sing a-down a-down,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
Well, sit we down,
The king and queen and all are coming down.
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And break your own neck down.
As therein are set down.
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Second Clown
Exit Second Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
First Clown
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
As are companions noted and most known
Now wears his crown.
As if increase of appetite had grown
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
That our devices still are overthrown;
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
REYNALDO
Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO
Exit REYNALDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
BERNARDO
Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO
FRANCISCO at his post. Enter to him BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
MARCELLUS BERNARDO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO
Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO
Retiring with HORATIO
Enter HORATIO
MARCELLUS HORATIO
Exit HORATIO
Exit HORATIO
Exit HORATIO
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
What shall I do?
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
My stern effects: then what I have to do
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
Bernardo?
Holla! Bernardo!
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Murder of Gonzago?
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
Which bewept to the grave did go
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
As infinite as man may undergo--
But let that go.
Be ruled; you shall not go.
Why to a public count I might not go,
nunnery, go.
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
Look to the queen there, ho!
Look to the queen there, ho!
Help, help, ho!
Between who?
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
Saw? who?
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
O, I die, Horatio;
O, I die, Horatio;
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
What ho! Horatio!
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Looks it not like the king? mark it, Horatio.
Question it, Horatio.
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
No!
No.
His beard was grizzled--no?
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
How if I answer 'no'?
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
whether you were sent for, or no?
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
The point!--envenom'd too!
The point!--envenom'd too!
Let him bless thee too.
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
Why, 'tis found so.
It shall be so:
Let this be so;
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
E'en so.
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
The rather, if you could devise it so
No, by the rood, not so:
No more but so?
And let him know so.
I will say so.
you seem to say so.
I would not hear your enemy say so,
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
great folk should have countenance in this world to
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
It would be spoke to.
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
Go to.
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
I mean, my head upon your lap?
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
The tedious day with sleep.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
Hail to your lordship!
I commend my duty to your lordship.
What means your lordship?
[Behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Give him the cup.
You mainly were stirr'd up.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
All given to mine ear.
Why, what should be the fear?
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
For God's love, let me hear.
Nor did you nothing hear?
Speak; I am bound to hear.
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
foolish ear.
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
How these things came about: so shall you hear
How these things came about: so shall you hear
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
[Beneath] Swear.
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
Consent to swear.
They swear
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
Drabbing: you may go so far.
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
progress through the guts of a beggar.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
I beseech you, remember--
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
Pluck them asunder.
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And, as I think, they have already order
Murder!
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
You know the wager?
Rapier and dagger.
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Messenger
Messenger
Enter a Messenger
Exit Messenger
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
Longer, longer.
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
I will not speak with her.
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
Came this from Hamlet to her?
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
Conceit upon her father.
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Not that I think you did not love your father;
My lord, the king your father.
To give these mourning duties to your father:
Requite him for your father.
Where's your father?
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
My father!--methinks I see my father.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Give me my father!
Play something like the murder of my father
The king my father!
some violets, but they withered all when my father
Most thoroughly for my father.
Where is my father?
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Nay, come, let's go together.
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
For none, neither.
Why does the drum come hither?
Why does the drum come hither?
that she sends you to prison hither?
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Of my true mother.
England! Farewell, dear mother.
[Within] Mother, mother, mother!
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
Good night, mother.
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
Follow my mother.
Follow my mother.
This is too heavy, let me see another.
Why he more than another?
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
And hurt my brother.
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
May give his saying deed; which is no further
How may we try it further?
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Or for some frontier?
grave-maker?
more choler.
No, my lord, rather with choler.
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
And pious action we do sugar o'er
Giving a paper
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
At supper.
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
Winner and loser?
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
[Aside] Still on my daughter.
a carpenter?'
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Nay, do not think I flatter;
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
To hear and see the matter.
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
What is the matter?
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
Now, mother, what's the matter?
This nothing's more than matter.
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
about my heart: but it is no matter.
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
Truly deliver.
Truly deliver.
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
Giving to you no further personal power
In general synod 'take away her power;
would vouchsafe the answer.
'Tis gone, and will not answer.
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
First Player
Exit First Player
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
start not so wildly from my affair.
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Are you fair?
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
It is a nipping and an eager air.
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
Sir?
sir.
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
You mock me, sir.
Mine, sir.
The king, sir,--
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
With drink, sir?
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
Who commands them, sir?
Of him, sir.
For no man, sir.
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
Come on, sir.
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
[To POLONIUS] God save you, sir!
God be wi' you, sir.
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Hear you, sir;
God bless you, sir!
God bless you, sir.
They are of Norway, sir.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
First Ambassador
First Ambassador
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
And all we mourn for.
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
That thus he suffers for.
What man dost thou dig it for?
My lord, we were sent for.
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
Of his behavior.
First Sailor
First Sailor
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
They retire without the door
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
That did I, my lord; and was accounted a good actor.
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
stoup of liquor.
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
You come most carefully upon your hour.
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
That show of such an exercise may colour
Upon mine honour,--
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
Our duty to your honour.
I warrant your honour.
And in the porches of my ears did pour
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
PRINCE FORTINBRAS
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES
To LAERTES
LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES
LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
KING CLAUDIUS
Enter KING CLAUDIUS
Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
LORD POLONIUS
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS
Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
Exeunt severally; HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS
To POLONIUS
Pointing to POLONIUS
Enter POLONIUS
Enter POLONIUS
Enter POLONIUS
Enter POLONIUS
Enter POLONIUS
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
Exit POLONIUS
Exit POLONIUS
Exit POLONIUS
Exit POLONIUS
Exit POLONIUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS
HORATIO MARCELLUS
HORATIO MARCELLUS
LUCIANUS
Enter LUCIANUS
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
Alas, alas!
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
Makes a pass through the arras
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
This realm dismantled was
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
Reads
Reads
Reads
Reads
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
Hold off your hands.
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
Importing the surrender of those lands
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
As low as to the fiends!'
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
Welcome, my good friends!
Leave me, friends.
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
And passion in the gods.'
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
More than in words?
Words, words, words.
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
What call you the carriages?
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
A king of shreds and patches,--
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
Out of his lunacies.
Dies
Dies
Dies
Dies
Dies
Dies
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
Falls and dies
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
KING CLAUDIUS dies
KING CLAUDIUS dies
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
None but his enemies.
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Some little time: so by your companies
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
Both your majesties
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
For in the fatness of these pursy times
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
Look, my lord, it comes!
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
Danes
Danes
Danes
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
The king rises.
Heavens make our presence and our practises
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
I should have fatted all the region kites
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
Of mighty opposites.
O, he is mad, Laertes.
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
Good Laertes,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Calmly, good Laertes.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
What is the cause, Laertes,
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
Of Laertes?
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
If it be so, Laertes--
That is Laertes,
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
How is't, Laertes?
How is't, Laertes?
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
To the ambassadors of England gives
To the ambassadors of England gives
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
No, nothing but ourselves.
We will bestow ourselves.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
After the thing it loves.
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Of mine own eyes.
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
Richer than that which four successive kings
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
Sings
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
[Sings]
He digs and sings
And more above, hath his solicitings,
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
This?
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
Let's further think of this;
Now, out of this,--
To whom do you speak this?
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
Wherefore should you do this?
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
But where was this?
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
What warlike noise is this?
What warlike noise is this?
Alack, what noise is this?
Why, what a king is this!
Do you think 'tis this?
To tell us this.
Why ask you this?
ask you what it means, say you this:
What dost you mean by this?
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
Most holy and religious fear it is
Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
let to know it is.
What majesty should be, what duty is,
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
As from the body of contraction plucks
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Where should we have our thanks?
Where should we have our thanks?
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
The lady protests too much, methinks.
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
Retires and kneels
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
QUEEN GERTRUDE falls
QUEEN GERTRUDE falls
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
These tedious old fools!
As to peace-parted souls.
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
have bad dreams.
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
He was the first that ever bore arms.
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
A sister driven into desperate terms,
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
No, by no means.
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
Let four captains
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
Is the main motive of our preparations,
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
O, for two special reasons;
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
The insolence of office and the spurns
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Sleeps
But age, with his stealing steps,
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
Look you, these are the stops.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
And let us once again assail your ears,
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
The light and careless livery that it wears
three and twenty years.
and boy, thirty years.
That was and is the question of these wars.
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
Re-enter Players with recorders
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors, and others
Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors, and others
players that I have seen play, and heard others
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
Exeunt FORTINBRAS and Soldiers
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
But keep a farm and carters.
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
Do you think I meant country matters?
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
With true-love showers.
Scattering flowers
Larded with sweet flowers
Enter HAMLET and Players
Enter four or five Players
Exeunt Players
There are the players.
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
Come, sirs.
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
Enter Sailors
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
To both your honours.
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
her favours?
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
Yours, yours.
You go not till I set you up a glass
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Then came each actor on his ass,--
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
Without debatement further, more or less,
This is mere madness:
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
That I essentially am not in madness,
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
Answer, and think upon this business.
shall be the end of my business.
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
It lifted up its head and did address
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
As one incapable of her own distress,
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
But I do prophesy the election lights
But I do prophesy the election lights
Lights, lights, lights!
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and Attendants
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and Attendants
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET, POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords, and Attendants
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some Attendants
To some Attendants
Exeunt Attendants
thousand tenants.
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
And there I see such black and grained spots
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
out of his swaddling-clouts.
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Bring him before us.
We will haste us.
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
What is the reason that you use me thus?
It could not move thus.
you any further trade with us?
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
If that his majesty would aught with us,
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
How long hath she been thus?
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
Where is Polonius?
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
For your desire to know what is between us,
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Of blue Olympus.
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
is a strumpet. What's the news?
How now! what news?
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
This presence knows,
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
Cock crows
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
Enter GHOST and HAMLET
Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
and more strange return. 'HAMLET.'
Enter HAMLET
Enter HAMLET
Enter HAMLET
Enter HAMLET
Ghost beckons HAMLET
Exeunt all except HAMLET
Exeunt all but HAMLET
Exeunt all but HAMLET
Exeunt all but HAMLET
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
HAMLET moves him to put on his hat
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
[To KING CLAUDIUS] O, ho! do you mark that?
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
E'en that.
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
A villain kills my father; and for that,
How now! what noise is that?
Do you doubt that?
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
I would know that.
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
I must to England; you know that?
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
What?
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
Believe what?
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Is thought-sick at the act.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
Such an act
What did you enact?
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
She is importunate, indeed distract:
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
Ay me, what act,
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
The leperous distilment; whose effect
That we find out the cause of this effect,
By letters congruing to that effect,
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Must give us pause: there's the respect
As will not leave their tinct.
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
To lay our service freely at your feet,
Lying down at OPHELIA's feet
For and a shrouding sheet:
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet.
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
Methought it was very sweet,
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Good my lord, be quiet.
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
And put it in his pocket!
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
[Within] Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
No more, sweet Hamlet!
Hamlet, Hamlet!
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
Why, how now, Hamlet!
Ay, Hamlet.
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
But you'll be secret?
SCENE IV. The Queen's closet.
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
Well, good night.
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
good night, good night.
Give you good night.
Give you good night.
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Tis now the very witching time of night,
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Hold you the watch to-night?
I will watch to-night;
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
Why, right; you are i' the right;
It falls right.
That ever I was born to set it right!
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
And vanish'd from our sight.
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Where is this sight?
Where is this sight?
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
I never gave you aught.
Marry, well bethought:
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
But answer made it none: yet once methought
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
My lord, I did intend it.
So be it!
and of very liberal conceit.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
Never believe it:
Never believe it:
Do not believe it.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
fit.
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
And draw you into madness? think of it:
O, throw away the worser part of it,
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
To let you know of it.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
We would not understand what was most fit;
And will not wrong it.
Than your particular demands will touch it:
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
A hit, a very palpable hit.
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
But do not go with it.
It beckons you to go away with it,
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
No; you'll reveal it.
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
Good my lord, tell it.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Did you not speak to it?
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
But truly, I do fear it.
Let us haste to hear it,
Let us haste to hear it,
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
I am thy father's spirit,
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
And am most sensible in grief for it,
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Whose was it?
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
And I beseech you instantly to visit
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
But that this folly douts it.
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
Heaven will direct it.
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
We will try it.
I do not think't.
I do not think't.
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
Of general assault.
Will he tell us what this show meant?
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
I know you are not ignorant--
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
Servant
Enter HORATIO and a Servant
Exit Servant
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
And call it accident.
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
How in my words soever she be shent,
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Sir, I lack advancement.
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
Judgment.
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
And enterprises of great pith and moment
Is not to stir without great argument,
This grave shall have a living monument:
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
Haply the seas and countries different
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
Against the which, a moiety competent
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
To give it due content.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
Who is to be buried in't?
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
That has no relish of salvation in't;
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
What think you on't?
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
I have sworn 't.
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
Exeunt
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
I will do't:
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thou so many princes at a shot
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
not.
O, fear me not.
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
My lord, we will not.
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
My lord, I cannot.
Believe me, I cannot.
Sir, I cannot.
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
Looking before and after, gave us not
Nay, that follows not.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
might it not?
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
it: I loved you not.
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
In what particular thought to work I know not;
Nay, I know not:
Nay, I know not.
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
No, indeed, are they not.
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
My lord, from head to foot.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
To't.
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
Friend, look to 't.
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
'As by lot, God wot,'
I find thee apt;
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
A face without a heart?
The head is not more native to the heart,
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
This something-settled matter in his heart,
And I am sick at heart.
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
Nay, but swear't.
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
admiration? Impart.
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
More matter, with less art.
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Lest with this piteous action you convert
spacious in the possession of dirt.
To make it truster of your own report
And gave you such a masterly report
And with a look so piteous in purport
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
That she should lock herself from his resort,
As it is common for the younger sort
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
To hear of it: they are about the court,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
By laboursome petition, and at last
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
A Norman was't?
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
First Priest
First Priest
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
Ha, ha! are you honest?
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
O, confound the rest!
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
Give me one poor request.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Ay, marry, is't:
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Ghost
Enter Ghost
Enter Ghost
Enter Ghost
Re-enter Ghost
Exit Ghost
Exit Ghost
Exit Ghost
Alas, poor ghost!
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
And so have I a noble father lost;
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
In second husband let me be accurst!
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
for the most part are capable of nothing but
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
And either [ ] the devil, or throw him out
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
My fate cries out,
By indirections find directions out:
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
Treachery! Seek it out.
Treachery! Seek it out.
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
Not when I saw't.
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I'll rant as well as thou.
For husband shalt thou--
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
'Thus didest thou.'
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
you.
So, proceed you.
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
Who hath relieved you?
It would have much amazed you.
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
[Aside] Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
He made confession of you,
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
I beseech you.
I do beseech you.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
And he to England shall along with you:
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Alas, how is't with you,
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
My lord, I have news to tell you.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
But let me hear from you.
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
We'll wait upon you.
What I have said to you.
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
With all my love I do commend me to you:
spirit, hath sent me to you.
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
This marvel to you.
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
I'll visit you.
I'll warrant you,
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
I pray you.
I pray you.
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
Arm'd, say you?
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN] What say you?
Another hit; what say you?
Who shall stay you?
I shall obey you.
ACT IV
ACT V
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
But is this law?
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
Will not debate the question of this straw:
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
High on a stage be placed to the view;
High on a stage be placed to the view;
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
A dream itself is but a shadow.
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
And I a maid at your window,
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
But I have that within which passeth show;
Not of that dye which their investments show,
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
[Rising] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
Of these delated articles allow.
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
Therefore let's follow.
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
No, nor mine now.
How should I your true love know
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
Not that I know.
And tell you what I know.
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
My lord, I do not know;
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
and then, you know,
My lord, I'll hit him now.
My lord, I'll hit him now.
What's the matter now?
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
What hour now?
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
His beard was as white as snow,
If she should break it now!
See you now;
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Have at you now!
Have at you now!
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
Does by their own insinuation grow:
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
How does your honour for this many a day?
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
And do such bitter business as the day
And it must follow, as the night the day,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
The hart ungalled play;
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
What do you call the play?
Give o'er the play.
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
Shakespeare homepage | Hamlet | Entire play
They prepare to play
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
Madam, how like you this play?
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
For they are actions that a man might play:
They play
They play
They play
They play
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
Madam, I wish it may.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
Look you, I'll go pray.
Say,
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
longer than they can sing? will they not say
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
Very strangely, they say.
So runs the world away.
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
O Gertrude, come away!
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
See, it stalks away!
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
Give me some light: away!
Do the boys carry it away?
Nothing, neither way.
Nothing, neither way.
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
Here in the lobby.
stairs into the lobby.
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
A dead march. Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off is shot offre not drink yet, madam; by and by.
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
Here stooping to your clemency,
That he is open to incontinency;
Well, God-a-mercy.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
We have sworn, my lord, already.
Thou know'st already.
there. Be the players ready?
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
One word more, good lady.
He is dead and gone, lady,
How is it with you, lady?
How do you, pretty lady?
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
For us, and for our tragedy,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
For if the king like not the comedy,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
All my smooth body.
And makes each petty artery in this body
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But we both obey,
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
for't. What players are they?
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
This warlike volley.
This warlike volley.
Why?
Why,
Why,
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
I embrace it freely;
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
How strangely?
It may be, very likely.
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
What, look'd he frowningly?
herself wittingly.
here lies the point: if I drown myself wittingly,
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Yes, 'faith heartily.
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
You will do't, sir, really.
And for your rapier most especially,
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
Most free in his reply.
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
You do not understand yourself so clearly
northerly.
unmannerly.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
Most constantly.
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
We beg your hearing patiently.
presently.
I'll board him presently.
And the queen too, and that presently.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
Directly seasons him his enemy.
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
[Aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
And hath abatements and delays as many
truepenny?
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
The violence of either grief or joy
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
As England was his faithful tributary,
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
And these few precepts in thy memory
Yea, from the table of my memory
Sir, a whole history.
That are so fortified against our story
To tell my story.
To tell my story.
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Of man and country.
A station like the herald Mercury
With this regard their currents turn awry,
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Ecstasy!
This bodiless creation ecstasy
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
Than to entreaty.
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
tragedians of the city.
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
In neither aught, or in extremity.
that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Passing through nature to eternity.
To his unmaster'd importunity.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
If you desire to know the certainty
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
To youth and liberty.
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
Thy natural magic and dire property,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
That live and feed upon your majesty.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
with honesty?
is something musty.
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
Over the nasty sty,--
admit no discourse to your beauty.
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
And we did think it writ down in our duty
In that and all things will we show our duty.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
Enter ROSENCRANTZ
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
Buz, buz!
